---
title: Continuous Science at FORCE11 2024
description: 'Curvenote gave a presentation at the FORCE11 2024 conference on continuous science.'
date: 2024-08-01
authors:
  - name: Rowan Cockett
    orcid: 0000-0002-7859-8394
    email: rowan@curvenote.com
    affiliations:
      - Curvenote
tags:
  - open-science
  - conference
  - presentation
thumbnail: thumbnails/force11-2024.png
doi: 10.5281/zenodo.13208054
---

This year, Curvenote had the pleasure of attending the FORCE11 2024 conference, where we presented our vision of "Continuous Science." Our talk focused on how the principles of continuous integration and deployment, well-known in software development, can be applied to scientific publishing to improve speed, reproducibility, and feedback loops.

While scientific discovery has been transformed by advances in data workflows, the methods used to communicate those discoveries—such as static PDFs—remain outdated. Our presentation explored the need for more dynamic and iterative mediums, such as MyST Markdown and Curvenote, to better integrate computational content directly into the scientific narrative. These tools enable scientists to continuously share and update their research in real-time, connecting software, data, and publication in ways that the current publishing system does not support.

In the same way that software development has embraced continuous delivery to speed up releases and improve feedback, we believe the scientific community can benefit from "continuous science". By automating parts of the publication process and reducing the time between peer feedback and publication, we can accelerate scientific progress and create a more interactive, robust research ecosystem.

Our discussion at FORCE11 emphasized how this approach can reduce the gap between conducting research and sharing it with the world, ultimately pushing the boundaries of what is possible in open science.

:::{iframe} https://www.youtube-nocookie.com/embed/tpn7tGzFpfk?si=fW_IiVPKjDZ7ZCV6
:width: 100%
:label: force11-2024-video
See @10.5281/zenodo.13208054 for presentation slides.
:::
